# Childish -- Simple Shell

## Progress

1. [x] Execute a single command.
2. [x] Properly block or unblock signals.
3. [x] Replace standard input/output of a process using the redirection operators (`<` and `>`).
4. [x] Setup foreground process group and background process groups.
5. [x] Create pipeline for commands separated by the pipe operator (`|`), and put the commands into the same process group.
6. [x] Manipulate environment variables: provide commands like `export` and `unset` to add and remove environment variables, respectively.
7. [x] Expand of the `*` and `?` operators.
8. [ ] Job control: support process suspension using `Ctrl-Z`, and `fg` and `bg` command.

## Build

*Need c++ compiler supported C++14 features.*

### Build

```
$ make
```

### Run

```
$ ./shell
/toor $ 
```

### Clean

```
$ make clean
```

## Usage

### Execute a single command

```
/toor $ ls -la
```

### Properly block or unblock signals: Sending SIGINT or SIGQUIT should not terminate the current running shell

```
/toor $ sleep 10^C
/toor $
```

### Replace standard output of a process

```
/toor $ ls -la > /tmp/x
```


### Replace standard input of a process

```
/toor $ cat < /etc/passwd
```

### Setup foreground process group and background process groups

```
/toor $ less /etc/passwd
```

### Create pipelines

```
/toor $ cat /etc/passwd | cat | less
```

### Put processes into the same process group

```
/toor $ ps -o pid,pgid,ppid,comm | cat | cat | tr A-Z a-z
```

Processes generated by a single command should be in the same process group.

### Manipulate environment variables

```
/toor $ export
Usage: export $name [$value]
/toor $ export a
a=
/toor $ export a "b c d"
/toor $ export a
a=b c d
/toor $ printenv
a=b c d
PWD=/toor
...
/toor $ unset a
/toor export a
a=
/toor $ 
```

### Expand * and ? characters

```
/toor $ ls *.jpg
a.jpg       b.jpg
/toor $ 
```

If you see an error message like `ls: cannot access *: No such file or directory`, means there's no any matched file.
